<sup>1</sup>Thus the heavens and the earth were completed, and all their array.
<sup>2</sup>[[In (not 'by' or 'on') the seventh day - Heb Bayyon haShebi'i|And in the seventh day]] Elohim completed His work which He had done, and He rested in the seventh day from all His work which He had made.
<sup>3</sup>And Elohim blessed the seventh day and set it apart, because on it He rested from all His work which Elohim in creation had made.
<sup>4</sup>These are the births of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that יהוה Elohim made earth and heaven.
<sup>5</sup>Now no shrub of the field was yet on the earth, and no plant of the field had yet sprung up, for יהוה Elohim had not sent rain on the earth, and there was no man to till the ground,
<sup>6</sup>but a mist went up from the earth, and watered the entire surface of the ground
<sup>7</sup>and יהוה  Elohim formed the man out of dust from the ground, and breathed into his nostrils breath of lives, And the man became a living being.
<sup>8</sup>and יהוה Elohim planted a garden in Eden, to the east, and there He put the man whom He had formed.
<sup>9</sup> And out of the ground יהוה Elohim made every tree grow that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food, with the tree of life in the midst of the garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
<sup>10</sup>And a river went out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it divided and become four heads.
<sup>11</sup>The name of the first place is [[Pishone]], it is the one surrounding the entire land of Hawalah, where there is gold.
<sup>12</sup>And the gold of that land is good. [[krf-Bdellium is one of the first ores mentioned in the Bible, in Genesis 2-12. Another name for it is false myrrh.|Bdellium]] is there, and the [[krf- So shoham, onyx, is related to mem-shin-hey, Moshe or Moses|shoham]] stone.
<sup>13</sup>And the name of the second river is [[Gihone]], it is the one surrounding the entire land of [[Kush(Genesis 2)|Kush]].
<sup>14</sup>And the name of the third river is [[Hiddeqel]], it is the one which goes toward the east of [[Ashshur]]. And the fourth river is the [[Euphrates]].
<sup>15</sup>And יהוה Elohim commanded the man, saying, "Eat of every tree of the garden of Eden to work it and to guard it."
<sup>16</sup>And יהוה  Elohim commanded the man, saying, "Eat of every tree of the garden,
<sup>17</sup>but do not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for in the day that you eat of it you shall certainly die."
<sup>18</sup>And יהוה Elohim said, "It is not good for the man to be alone, I am going to make a helper for him, as his counterpart."
<sup>19</sup>And from the ground יהוה Elohim formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them, And whatever the man called each living being, that was its name.
<sup>20</sup>So the man gave names to all livestock, and to the birds of the heavens, and to every beast of the field. But for the man there was not found a helper for him, as his counterpart.
<sup>21</sup>so יהוה Elohim cause a deep sleep to fall on the man, and he slept, And He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in its place.
<sup>22</sup>And the rib which יהוה Elohim had taken from the man He made into a woman, and He brought her to the man.
<sup>23</sup>And the man said, "This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. This one is called "woman," because she was taken out of man."
<sup>24</sup>And they were both naked, the man and his wife, yet they were not ashamed.