<sup>1</sup>And Adam knew Hawwah his wife, and she conceived and bore Qayin, and said, "I have gained a man, יהוה"
<sup>2</sup>And again, she gave birth Hebel, and Hebel became a keeper of sheep, but Qayin became a tiller of the ground.
<sup>3</sup>And it came to be, in the course of time, that Qayin brought in an offering of the fruit of the ground to יהוה
<sup>4</sup>And Hebel also brought of the first-born of his flock and of their fat. and יהוה looked to Hebel and his offering,
<sup>5</sup>but He did not look to Qayin and his offering. And Qayin was very wroth, and his face fell.
<sup>6</sup>And יהוה said to Qayin, "why is he wroth towards you? And why is your [[Lit. faces.|face]] fallen?
<sup>7</sup>Is *it* not if you do good, you are to be accepted? And if you do not do good, towards the door is a [[Or sin-offering (feminine)|sin]]. He is [[Or reposing or crouching (masculine)|lying]] and towards you is his desire, and you must rule [[Lit. In|over]] him."
<sup>8</sup>And Qayin told Hebel his brother. And it came to be when they were in the fields, that Qayin rose up against Hebel his brother and killed him.
<sup>9</sup>And יהוה said to Qayin, "Where is Hebel your brother?" And he said, "I do not know, Am I my brother's guard?"
<sup>10</sup>And He said, "What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood cries out to Me from the ground.
<sup>11</sup>And now you are cursed from the earth, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand."
<sup>12</sup>"If you till the ground, it shall no longer yield its strength to you. You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth"
<sup>13</sup>And Qayin said to יהוה, "My punishment is too great to bear!"
<sup>14</sup>"See you have driven me from the face of the ground today, and I am hidden from Your face, I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and it shall be that anyone who finds me kills me."
<sup>15</sup>And יהוה said to him, "well if anyone kills Qayin, he shall be avenged sevenfold." And יהוה set up a sign for Qayin lest anyone finding him strikes him.
<sup>16</sup>So Qayin went out from the presence of יהוה and dwelt in the land of Nod on the east of Eden.
<sup>17</sup>And Qayin knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Hanok. And he built a city, and called the name of the city after the name of his son, Hanok.
<sup>18</sup>And to Hanok was born Irad. And Irad brought forth Mehuya'el, and Mehuya'el brought forth Lemek.
<sup>19</sup>And Lemek took himself two wives, the name of one was Adah, and the name of the second was Tsillah.
<sup>20</sup>And Adah bore Yabal. He was the father of those who dwell in tents, with livestock.
<sup>21</sup>And his brother's name was Yubal. He was the father of all those who play the lyre and flute.
<sup>22</sup>As for Tsillah, she also bore Tubal-Qayin and the sister of Tubal-Qayin was Na'amah.
<sup>23</sup>And Lemek said to his wives. "Adah and Tsillah, hear my voice! Wives of Lemek, listen to my words! For I have killed a man for wounding me, even a young man for hurting me.
<sup>24</sup>"For Qayin is avenged sevenfold"
<sup>25</sup> And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and called his name Sheth, "For Elohim whas appointed me another seed instead of Hebel, because Qayin had killed him."
<sup>26</sup>And to Sheth, to him also a son was born. And he called his name Enosh. Then it was begun to call on the name of [[The first record of calling on the name of יהוה|יהוה]].
