<sup>1</sup>This is the book of the genealogy of Adam. In the day that Elohim created man, He made him in the likeness of Elohim.
<sup>2</sup>Male and female He created them, and He blessed them, and called their name 'Adam" in the day they were created.
<sup>3</sup>'And Adam lived one hundred and thirty years, and brought forth a son in his own likeness, after his his image, and called his name Sheth.
<sup>4</sup>And after he brought forth Sheth, the days of Adam were eight hundred years. And he brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>5</sup>So all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.
<sup>6</sup>And Sheth lived one hundred and five years, and brought forth Enosh.
<sup>7</sup>And after he brought forth Enosh, Sheth lived eight hundred and seven years and brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>8</sup>So all the days of Sheth were nine hundred and twelve years and he died.
<sup>9</sup>And Enosh lived ninety years, and brought forth Qeynan.
<sup>10</sup>And after he brought forth Qeynan, Enosh lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>11</sup>So all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years, and he died.
<sup>12</sup>And Qeynan lived seventy years and brought forth Mahalal'el/
<sup>13</sup>After he brought forth Mahalal'el, Qeynan lived eight hundred and forty years, and brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>14</sup>So all the days of Qeynan were nine hundred and eight years, and he died.
<sup>15</sup>And Mahalal'el lived sixty-five years and brought forth Yered.
<sup>16</sup>And after he brought forth Yered, Mahalal'el lived eight hundred and thirty years, and brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>17</sup>So all the days of Mahalal'el were eight hundred and nintey-five years , and he died.
<sup>18</sup>And Yered lived one hundred and sixty-two years, and brough forth Hanok.
<sup>19</sup>And after he brought forth Hanok, Yered lived eight hundred years, and brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>20</sup>So all the days of Yered were nine hundred and sixty-two years and he died.
<sup>21</sup>And Hanok lived sixty-five years and brought forth Methushelah.
<sup>22</sup>And after he brought forth Methushelah, Hanok walked with Elohim three hundred years, and brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>23</sup>So all the days of Hanok were three hundred and sixty-five years.
<sup>24</sup>And Hanok walked with Elohim. Then he was no more, for Elohim took him.
<sup>25</sup>And Methuselah lived one hundred and eighty-seven years, and brough forth Lemek.
<sup>26</sup>And after he brough forth Lemek, Methushelah lived seven hundred and eighty-two years, and brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>27</sup>So all the days of Methushelah were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died.
<sup>28</sup>And Lemek lived one hundred and eighty-two years, and brought forth a son,
<sup>29</sup>and called his name Noah, saying, "This one does comfort us concerning our work and the toil of our hands, because of the ground which יהוה has cursed."
<sup>30</sup>And after he brought forth Noah, Lemek lived five hundred and ninety-five years, and brought forth sons and daughters.
<sup>31</sup>So all the days of Lemek were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died.
<sup>32</sup>And Noah was five hundred years old, and Noah brought forth Shem, Ham, and Yapheth