<sup>1</sup>And יהוה said to Noah, "Come into the ark, you and all your household, because I have seen that you are righteous before Me in this generation.
<sup>2</sup>Of all the clean beasts take with you seven pairs, a male and his female; and of the beasts that are unclean two, a male and his female;
<sup>3</sup>"and of birds of the heavens seven pairs, male and female, to keep offspring alive on the face of all the earth.
<sup>4</sup>"For after seven more days I am sending rain on the earth, forty days and forty nights, and shall wipe from the face of the earth all that stand that I created."
<sup>5</sup>And Noah did according to all that יהוה commanded him.
<sup>6</sup>Now Noah was six hundred years old when the flood-waters were on the earth.
<sup>7</sup>And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives went into the ark because of the waters of the flood.
<sup>8</sup>Of the clean beasts and of the beasts that are unclean, and of birds, and of all that creep on the earth,
<sup>9</sup>two by two the went into the ark to Noah, male and female, as Elohim had commanded Noah.
<sup>10</sup>And it came to be after seven days that the waters of the flood were on the earth.
<sup>11</sup>In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second new *moon*, the seventeenth day of the new moon, on that day all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the windows of the heavens were opened.
<sup>12</sup>And the rain was on the earth forty days and forty nights.
<sup>13</sup>On that same day Noah and Shem and Ham and Yepheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them, went into the ark,
<sup>14</sup>they and every beast after its kind, and every creeping *creature* that creeps on the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind, and every bird of every wing.
<sup>15</sup>And they went into the ark to Noah, two by two, of all flesh in which is the breath of life.
<sup>16</sup>And those going in, male and female of all flesh, went in as Elohim had commanded him, and יהוה shut him in.
<sup>17</sup>And the flood was on the earth forty days, and the waters increased and lifted up the ark, and it rose high above the earth.
<sup>18</sup>And the waters were mighty and greatly increased on the earth, and the ark moved about on the surface of the waters.
<sup>19</sup>And the waters were exceedingly mighty on the earth, and all the high mountains under all the heavens were covered.
<sup>20</sup>The waters became mighty, fifteen cubits upward, and the mountains were covered.
<sup>21</sup>And all flesh died - the *creeping* creature on the earth - birds and cattle and beasts and every swarming *creature* that swarms on the earth, and all mankind.
<sup>22</sup>All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, all that was on the dry land, died.
<sup>23</sup>So He wiped off all that stand, which were on the face of the ground - both man and beast, creeping *creature* and bird of the heavens. And they were wiped off from the earth. And only Noah was left, and those with him in the ark.
<sup>24</sup>And the waters were mighty on the earth, one hundred and fifty days.