<sup>1</sup> And concerning the collections for the set-apart ones, you are to do as I gave orders to the assemblies of Galatia:
<sup>2</sup> On the first day of the week let each one of you set aside, storing up whatever he is prospered, so that there are no collections when I come.
<sup>3</sup> And when I come, whomever you approve by your letters, I shall send to bear your gift to Yerushalayim.
<sup>4</sup> And if it is fitting for me to go, they shall go with me.
<sup>5</sup> And I shall come to you when I pass through Makedonia, for I am passing through Makedonia.
<sup>6</sup> And possibly I shall stay with you, or even spend the winter, so that you send me forward, wherever I go.
<sup>7</sup> For I do not wish to see you now on the way, but I expect to stay a while with you, if the Master permits.
<sup>8</sup> And I shall remain in Ephesos until the Festival of Weeks.
<sup>9</sup> For a great and effective door has opened to me, and many are opposing.
<sup>10</sup> And if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear, for he does the work of the Master, even as I.
<sup>11</sup> Therefore let no one despise him. And send him forward in peace, so that he comes to me, for I am waiting for him with the brothers.
<sup>12</sup> And concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brothers, but he had no desire at all to come at this time; however, he shall come when it is convenient.
<sup>13</sup> Watch, stand fast in the belief, be men, be strong.
<sup>14</sup> Let all that you do be done in love.
<sup>15</sup> And I urge you, brothers, you know the household of Stephanas, that it is the first-fruit of Achaia, and that they have assigned themselves for service to the set-apart ones,
<sup>16</sup> that you also be subject to such, and to everyone who works and labours with us.
<sup>17</sup> And I rejoice about the coming of Stephanas, and Fortunatos, and Achaikos, for what was lacking on your part they supplied.
<sup>18</sup> For they refreshed my spirit and yours, therefore give recognition to such ones.
<sup>19</sup> The assemblies of Asia greet you. Aqulas and Priscilla greet you heartily in the Master, with the assembly that is in their house.
<sup>20</sup> All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a set-apart kiss.
<sup>21</sup> The greeting with my own hand – Sha’ul.
<sup>22</sup> If anyone does not love the Master יהושע Messiah, let him be a curse. Maranatha!
<sup>23</sup> The favour of our Master יהושע Messiah be with you.
<sup>24</sup> My love be with you all in Messiah יהושע. Amĕn.
