<sup>1</sup> And concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not wish you to be ignorant.
<sup>2</sup> You know that you were gentiles, led away to the dumb idols, even as you might be led.
<sup>3</sup> Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of Elohim says יהושע is a curse, and no one is able to say that יהושע is Master except by the Set-apart Spirit.
<sup>4</sup> And there are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit.
<sup>5</sup> There are different kinds of services, but the same Master.
<sup>6</sup> And there are different kinds of workings, but it is the same Elohim who is working all in all.
<sup>7</sup> And to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for profiting,
<sup>8</sup> for to one is given a word of wisdom through the Spirit, and to another a word of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
<sup>9</sup> and to another belief by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing by the same Spirit,
<sup>10</sup> and to another operations of powers, and to another prophecy, and to another discerning of spirits, and to another kinds of tongues, and to another interpretation of tongues.
<sup>11</sup> But one and the same Spirit works all these, distributing to each one individually as He intends.
<sup>12</sup> For as the body is one and has many members, but all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is the Messiah.
<sup>13</sup> For indeed by one Spirit we were all immersed into one body, whether Yehuḏim or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink into one Spirit.
<sup>14</sup> For indeed the body is not one member but many.
<sup>15</sup> If the foot says, “Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body,” does it therefore not belong to the body?
<sup>16</sup> And if the ear says, “Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body,” does it therefore not belong to the body?
<sup>17</sup> If all the body was an eye, where would be the hearing? If all hearing, where would be the smelling?
<sup>18</sup> But now Elohim has set the members, each one of them, in the body, even as He pleased.
<sup>19</sup> And if they all had been one member, where would the body be?
<sup>20</sup> And now, there are indeed many members, but one body.
<sup>21</sup> And an eye is unable to say to the hand, “I have no need of you,” or again the head to the feet, “I have no need of you.”
<sup>22</sup> But much rather, those members of the body which are thought to be weaker are necessary.
<sup>23</sup> And to those of the body which we think to be less respected, these we present greater respect. And our unseemly members have greater seemliness,
<sup>24</sup> whereas our seemly members have no need. But Elohim blended together the body, having given greater respect to that member which lacks it,
<sup>25</sup> that there should be no division in the body, but that the members should have the same concern one for another.
<sup>26</sup> And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; or if one member is esteemed, all the members rejoice with it.
<sup>27</sup> And you are a body of Messiah, and members individually.
<sup>28</sup> And Elohim has appointed these in the assembly: firstly emissaries, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, ministrations, kinds of tongues.
<sup>29</sup> Are all emissaries? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles?
<sup>30</sup> Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
<sup>31</sup> But earnestly seek the better gifts. And yet I show you a more excellent way.
