<sup>1</sup> To boast, indeed, is useless for me, for I shall go on to visions and revelations of יהוה.
<sup>2</sup> I know a man in Messiah who fourteen years ago – whether in the body I do not know, or whether out of the body I do not know, Elohim knows – such a one was caught up to the third heaven.
<sup>3</sup> And I know such a man – whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, Elohim knows –
<sup>4</sup> that he was caught up into Paradise and heard unspeakable words, which it is not right for a man to speak.
<sup>5</sup> Of such a one I shall boast, but of myself I shall not boast, except in my weaknesses.
<sup>6</sup> For if I shall wish to boast, I shall not be a fool, for I shall speak the truth. But I refrain, lest anyone should think more of me than what he sees in me, or hears of me.
<sup>7</sup> And to keep me from exalting myself because of the exceeding greatness of the revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to hit me, to keep me from exalting myself.
<sup>8</sup> Concerning this I pleaded with the Master three times to take it away from me.
<sup>9</sup> And He said to me, “My favour is sufficient for you, for My power is perfected in weakness.” Most gladly, then, I shall rather boast in my weaknesses, so that the power of Messiah rests on me.
<sup>10</sup> Therefore I take pleasure in weaknesses, in insults, in needs, in persecutions, in distresses, for the sake of Messiah. For when I am weak, then I am strong.
<sup>11</sup> I have become a fool – you have compelled me. For I should have been commended by you, for in no respect was I behind the most eminent emissaries, though I am a nobody.
<sup>12</sup> Indeed, the signs of an emissary were wrought among you with all endurance, in signs and wonders and powers.
<sup>13</sup> For what is there in which you were inferior to other assemblies, except that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong!
<sup>14</sup> See, I am ready to come to you for the third time. And I shall not be a burden to you, for I do not seek yours, but you. For the children should not lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
<sup>15</sup> And I shall most gladly spend and be spent for your lives. If I love you more and more, am I to be loved less?
<sup>16</sup> But be it so, I did not burden you. But being crafty, did I catch you with guile?
<sup>17</sup> Did I take advantage of you by any of those whom I sent to you?
<sup>18</sup> I urged Titus, and sent our brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit – not in the same steps?
<sup>19</sup> Again, do you think that we defend ourselves to you? We speak before Elohim in Messiah. But all this, beloved, is for your upbuilding.
<sup>20</sup> For I fear lest, when I come, I do not find you such as I wish, and I be found by you such as you do not wish – lest there be strife, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, slander, gossip, puffings up, unrests,
<sup>21</sup> and lest, when I come again, my Elohim should humble me among you, and I shall mourn for many who have sinned before and have not repented of the uncleanness, and whoring, and indecency which they have practised.
